 Preparation:

    Prevent OTA update
    In the topmost visible level of USB storage, add the OTA blocking directory name.
    The blocker directory is named:
    update.bin.tmp.partial
    Use that exact name, no additional extension.
    Required
        Register the Kindle
        Without registration, you can not access the UYK (Update Your Kindle) menu entry.
        Note: This varies with firmware version, some allow, some do not allow.
        All of these experimental packages install with UYK, using MrPI is not required.
    Recommended
    The following changes are all in support of recovering the Kindle should start-up problems 
    occur.
    Each of them can prevent the export of USB storage until a touch screen action is taken.
    But the problems occur before the touch screen is up and working.
        Remove any pass-code protection.
        Remove any parental controls.
        Have Special Offers removed.
    Test if Kindle can be jail broken with firmware it shipped with.
    Note: Firmware 5.9.2 can not (yet) be jail broken.
    Download:
    Device Jail Break
    DO NOT let your PC open that archive or otherwise convert it to a "safe" archive.
    Owners of MacOS systems should be aware that the default settings will open and convert 
    this archive to a "safe" archive, which prevents it from working as intended.
        Place in topmost visible level of USB storage.
        Remove USB cable.
        In search bar of home screen, enter:
        ;installHtml
        That semi-colon is part of the command and the command is case sensitive.
        Did you have a "JailBroken" document appear on your Kindle?
            Yes it did appear:
            The device jail break is now installed, you can skip the following step to install 
            a "Factory Use Only" firmware build.
            No, if did not appear (be sure, use your pc to look for it in /documents folder):
            You will have to install a "Factory Use Only" firmware build as described below.


Install "Factory Use Only" firmware build:
If the "JailBroken" document showed up on your Kindle when you did the last item in the above 
section, you may skip this section.

    Replace your "Customer Use" firmware build with a "Factory Use Only" firmware build.
    In this case, the firmware version numbers before and after this step are not significant.
    The use of the word "Update" means the label on the button in the settings menu, it does 
    not describe the action performed.
        Download the firmware that was intend to only be used on the factory production line:
        Factory Use Only Image
        Place in topmost visible level of USB storage.
        Remove USB cable
        Home -> Menu -> Settings -> Menu -> Update (your Kindle)
        Wait.
        Do not panic, this firmware will often required as long as 5 minutes to install.
    Install the device jail break:
    Note: Firmware 5.9.2 can not (yet) be jail broken.
    Download:
    Device Jail Break
    DO NOT let your PC open that archive or otherwise convert it to a "safe" archive.
    Owners of MacOS systems should be aware that the default settings will open and convert 
    this archive to a "safe" archive, which prevents it from working as intended.
        Place in topmost visible level of USB storage.
        Remove USB cable.
        In search bar of home screen, enter:
        ;installHtml
        That semi-colon is part of the command and the command is case sensitive.
        Did you have a "JailBroken" document appear on your Kindle?
            Yes it did appear:
            The device jail break is now installed. It is alright to continue.
            No, if did not appear (be sure, use your pc to look for it in /documents folder):
            Something unexpected has gone wrong, PM for help.


Install the "Jailbreak Survial Code":
This installs both the "Bridge Code" that auto-reinstalls the jailbreak and it installs the 
application keys required to run some of the add-in applications.
Note:This step should be repeated after every change in the registration status.
Download:
Jailbreak Survial Code
This is also refered to as the "hotfix" package.

    Place in topmost visible level of USB storage.
    Remove USB cable.
    Home -> Menu -> Settings -> Menu -> UYK (Update Your Kindle)



= = = =

Any other *.bin package used MUST be re-installed after an Amazon update!
Only the jailbreak and the components of the "Jail Break Survival Code" is auto-reinstalled.

= = = =

Experimental KOA2 Packages:
All of these packages are built to install using UYK (Update Your Kindle) menu entry.
The Mobileread Package Installer (MrPI) is not required for installing these packages.

    Required
        KUAL Launcher
        Provides the application launcher menu.
            Install:
            KUAL Booklet Install
            Status: Tested, Some Problems Reported
            Uninstall:
            KUAL Booklet Uninstall
            Status: Not Tested
    Suggested
        Rescue Pack
        Adds SSH server to "Diags" system and restores the detection of: "ENABLE_DIAGS" 
        in top of USB storage.
            Install:
            RP Install
            Status: Tested - Broken - Do Not Use
            A script to recover from a broken RP installation is in the works.
            Uninstall: Never Provided
            Status: N/A
        Coward's Rescue Pack
        An optional add-on to the Rescue Pack.
        Provides control of Rescue Pack by detecting USB cable connection.
            Install:
            CRP Install
            Status: Not Tested
            Uninstall:
            CRP Uninstall
            Status: Not Tested
    Available
        USB Networking
        Includes both ssh and telnet servers.
        Lots of bonus items also included.
            Install:
            USBnetworking Install
            Status: Tested, working
            Uninstall:
            USBnetworking Uninstall
            Status: Not Tested
    Packaging
    Tools and utilities for examination and maintenance of packaging.
        KindleTool binaries
        KindleTool both creates new and opens existing "update_*.bin" packages.
        Both those of Amazon/Lab126 and of Mobileread.
            Linux x86-64:
            KindleTool, Linux-x86_64
            Status: Working, in-use
            Windows native x86_64:
            Status: Not yet available
        Batch Re-packaging Script
        Script contains a table format listing of Mobileread "update_*.bin" packages 
        and allows the selective re-packaging of the listed packages.
        Packaging parameters currently set to generate these koa2_nomax type packages.
        The only documentation is the comments in the script.
            Script:
            mkpkgs batch re-packaging script
            Status: Working, in-use
    Historical Interest Only
        Old factory images
            'Main' system:
            update_main_5.9.0.5.1-007
            'Main' system:
            update_main_5.9.0.5.1-008
            'Diags' system:
            update_diags_001.059
    KUAL Extensions
        kTerm
        Kindle Terminal
            Archive:
            kTerm
            Status: Not tested.

